--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :meta
:title 50% Whole Wheat
:published #time/ldt "2019-10-14T12:00:00"
:description

I'm reading [Open Crumb Mastery](http://www.breadwerx.com/open-crumb-mastery/),
and picked up on some interesting information on strength in doughs, and how
folds in particular relate to it. I've lamented that my 50% whole wheat tends to
end up a little flabby when baked as batards, so I figured I'd try a batch
applying some newly acquired knowledge.

:image /images/bread/
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Dough
:ingredients
[{:type :white-wheat :amount 500}
 {:type :whole-wheat :amount 500}
 {:type :water :amount 750 :temperature 37}
 {:type :salt :amount 22}
 {:type :yeast :amount 4}]
:time 10
:body

Open Crumb Mastery states that the autolyse improves the flexibility of the
dough, which is generally not what you're looking for when you want to build a
strong dough that can hold it's shape. So no autolyse today.

I combined all the dry ingredients, then added water and mixed until the flour
was evenly hydrated. I've reduced the hydration of this dough from 80% to 75%,
which is another factor that should increase the dough's strength.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Bulk fermentation
:ingredients
[]
:time 270
:body

Open Crumb Mastery says that to increase the strength of the dough, you want to
"proof under tension". There is a multitude of ways to achieve this, but today
I'm adjusting my regular process by allowing folds further into the bulk
fermentation, and by applying stronger folds (e.g. stretching the dough more
before folding it back onto itself).

I applied relatively strong folds every 30 minutes the first two hours. I then
folded again an hour apart on hour 3 and 4. This had the noticable and expected
effect of degassing the dough more than usual. Will be interesting to see if the
lost volume can be regained.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Shaping
:time 75
:body

About 30 minutes after the last fold during bulk fermentation I plopped the
dough onto the counter. The difference in feel from usual was remarkable - the
dough left the container without a single tear or sticky residue, and landed on
the counter like a springy ball. This is a stronger dough than I'm used to with
this recipe for sure.

I pre-rounded two rounds and let them sit for 20 minutes to relax. Again the
dough degassed quite a bit, but even after the 20 minute rest, it was starting
to pep up again.

I gave the rounds a final shaping, trying to not degas the dough much more at
this point. Now the dough was so elastic that shaping it was a little
challenging, which is quite OK for this experiment. I transferred to baskets,
and immediately stuck one basket in the fridge.

Small aside: I usually proof seam-side down. This helps me gloss over some
shortcomings in shaping technique by applying pressure on the seam the whole
proof, thus avoiding tearing along a badly sealed seam too early. Besides, I
figure that the top of the loaf will be slashed/torn anyway, might as well place
the seam here. I probably should repeat this experiment with the seam up, to see
if slashing the smooth side yields better oven spring.

I set the timer for just 50 minutes, to be sure not to over-proof.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Baking
:time 50
:body

I baked these one by one in an oval dutch oven at 245C - 30 minutes covered, 20
minutes uncovered. The result was very satisfactory. It was obvious already when
tipping the bread into the pot that it was much tighter and more elastic. I
slashed the top of the loaf, and while I didn't get fantastic ears on the loaf,
it did expand thoroughly in the oven, and even ripped along the seam in addition
to widening the cuts alot.

The crumb has a nice circular pattern from final shaping. It is a little denser
looking than usual, with lots of small holes. Even so, the bread is just as
light as it has ever been, and there is no dense chewiness at all. At 50% whole
wheat this is a fantastically light and tasty, yet filling bread. Will
definitely repeat the experiment, and next time I'll try sealing the seam a
little stronger, and proofing seam side up.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
