--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :meta
:title Simit
:published #time/ldt "2019-09-18T12:00:00"
:description

I recently had a [simit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simit), a round
roll-sized bread encrusted with sesames, at a local café. It was crunchy on the
outside, had a very light crumb, and was totally delicious. I don't really know
anything about making these, but I thought I ought to start trying to make
something like it.

:image /images/bread/IMG_1641.jpg
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Pre-ferment
:ingredients
[{:type :wheat-00 :amount 250}
 {:type :water :amount 170}
 {:type :yeast :amount 0.2}]
:image /images/bread/IMG_1637.jpg
:time 600
:body

I made the pre-ferment in the morning. I decided to base this on Caputo's 00
flour, to maximize tenderness and a crunchy outside.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Dough
:ingredients
[{:type :fine-whole-wheat :amount 125}
 {:type :white-wheat :amount 125}
 {:type :water :amount 200 :temperature 38}
 {:type :salt :amount 10}
 {:type :yeast :amount 1.5}]
:time 5
:image /images/bread/IMG_1640.jpg
:image-alt Dough temperature: 27.6C
:body

About 10 hours later, I built the dough. The idea was to use only 00 flour along
with some fine whole wheat flour, to add a bit of texture and flavor.
Unfortunately, I was all out of the fine full wheat - but I did still have some
50/50 flour mix that I use to feed my sourdough left. So I used that.

Total hydration was 75%. Should probably have pushed it to 80%, as it ended up a
little stiff.

Finalized the dough close enough to 28C

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Bulk fermentation
:time 210
:body

Dough fermented in a 22C kitchen for 3.5 hours, stretches every 15 or so
minutes the first hour.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Shaping
:time 15
:body

The simit is supposed to tear slightly in a twisting formation - I guess it's
braided somehow. I cut 100g pieces, rolled them into thin strands, and braided
some (two strands), and just rolled some into circles.

The type of dough I opted for is really meant to be degassed as little as
possible, and this handling did not go well. Also, because the dough is
relatively sticky and bubbly at 75% hydration, rolling even strands was
challenging for my inexperienced hands. I will have to try this again with
stiffer dough, which I think will be easier to shape.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Proofing
:time 60
:body

Proofed four simits on the counter for an hour, and the remaining four in the
refrigerator until the first batch was done cooking.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Baking
:time 40
:body

I brushed the simits with 50/50 whipped egg and milk, then covered them in
sesames. They were then baked in a deep pan with foil for 20 minutes at 245C,
and 20 minutes uncovered.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Results
:image /images/bread/IMG_1642.jpg
:image-alt Simit with ham and cheese
:body

These came out pretty good for a first try. The shape was very off - the dough
was too wet/slack, and didn't hold up a nice tubular shape, so they're a little
flabbier than I wanted. The color however, was nice and on the mark. The flavour
of toasted sesames completely permeate the bread, very lovely. The crust was
very crunchy, but all in all they were a little on the chewy side - very
enjoyable the first half, a little tiresome by the second half. I'll probably
adjust cooking time for the next iteration.
