--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :meta
:title Flour Water Salt Yeast 50% Whole Wheat
:published #time/ldt "2019-08-31T12:00:00"
:description

Another batch of Ken Forkish' 50% whole wheat bread with a yeasted pre-ferment
from [Flour Water Salt Yeast](https://kensartisan.com/flour-water-salt-yeast/).
Added some sesames to half the dough.

:image /images/bread/IMG_1583.jpg
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Pre-ferment
:ingredients
[{:type :white-wheat :amount 500}
 {:type :water :amount 340}
 {:type :yeast :amount 0.8}]
:time 600
:body

Made the pre-ferment in the morning. I doubled the yeast, as I didn't have time
to let it go for 12 hours.

Combined and let rest in room temperature ~24C, quite humid.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Dough
:ingredients
[{:type :fine-whole-wheat :amount 500}
 {:type :water :amount 460 :temperature 38}
 {:type :salt :amount 22}
 {:type :yeast :amount 3}]
:time 5
:image /images/bread/P8240231.jpg
:image-alt Dough temperature
:body

Hydrated and proofed the yeast in the warm water for a few minutes, until I
combined it all to a paste, added it to the pre-ferment and combined everything
using the [pincer method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HoY7CPw0E1s).

Gave the dough some stretches to develop it a little, and finished the mix with
the dough at the target temperature of 28C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Bulk fermentation
:time 210
:image /images/bread/IMG_1579.jpg
:image-alt Sesame dough fermenting
:body

After 15 minutes I split the dough into two tubs, and added 60 grams of toasted
sesame seeds to one. Did 4 folds at 15 minute intervals. Bulk fermentation
lasted for 3.5 hours in a 24C kitchen.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Shaping
:time 80
:body

I formed loose rounds and let them rest for 20 minutes. Then shaped rough
batards, and transferred to appropriate baskets. One went into the refrigerator,
and the other sat on the counter in a 24C kitchen for close to 60 minutes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Baking
:time 50
:image-alt Finished crumb
:image /images/bread/IMG_1580.jpg
:body

Baked in an oval dutch oven with lid for 30 minutes, then uncovered for 20
minutes. All at 245C. Immediately after pulling the first loaf, I baked the
second one from the fridge.

I sliced the first one, which only helped it ooze a little on the side, so
decided against doing the same with the next. It was probably a mistake, because
the second loaf had slightly poorer lift.
