--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :meta
:title Oatmeal bread
:published #time/ldt "2019-09-14T12:00:00"
:description

Another batch of my oatmeal bread under development. This time I remembered to
put in some sugar, as was the intention the first time around.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Pre-ferment
:ingredients
[{:type :white-wheat :amount 500}
 {:type :water :amount 340}
 {:type :yeast :amount 0.4}]
:time 600
:body

Made the pre-ferment before going to bed as usual. Kitchen was at 21C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Dough
:ingredients
[{:type :coarse-whole-wheat :amount 250}
 {:type :white-wheat :amount 250}
 {:type :flaked-oats :amount 100}
 {:type :water :amount 360 :temperature 38}
 {:type :milk :amount 200 :temperature 38}
 {:type :butter :amount 50}
 {:type :sugar :amount 30}
 {:type :salt :amount 22}
 {:type :yeast :amount 3}]
:time 10
:body

Combined oats, water, milk, sugar, and yeast and let it sit for a few minutes.
Then added the rest, worked it into a coherent mass, and combined it with the
pre-ferment using the [pincer
method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HoY7CPw0E1s).

Dough finished close to the target temperature of 28C, at 27C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Bulk fermentation
:time 240
:body

Dough fermented in a 22C kitchen for 4 hours, stretches every 15 or so minutes
the first hour.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Shaping
:time 90
:body

I formed loose rounds and let them rest for 20 minutes. I then shaped into
batards, transferred to loaf pans, and set one on the counter to proof. The
other one went directly to the fridge.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Baking
:time 50
:body

Baked in an oval dutch oven, lid on for 30 minutes, then uncovered for 20 minutes. All
at 245C. Immediately after pulling the first, I baked the one proofing in the
fridge. This timing works out well with this dough.

Unfortunately I completely forgot to snap photos this time, but the breads were
quite successful.
