--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :meta
:title Oatmeal Bread
:published #time/ldt "2019-09-07T10:00:00"
:description

An experiment: An oatmeal bread based on the plain and 50% whole wheat breads in
[Flour Water Salt Yeast](https://kensartisan.com/flour-water-salt-yeast/).

:image /images/bread/IMG_1603.jpg
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Pre-ferment
:ingredients
[{:type :white-wheat :amount 500}
 {:type :water :amount 500}
 {:type :yeast :amount 0.4}]
:time 600
:body

Made poolish before going to bed, around 23:30. Kitchen was at 20C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Dough
:ingredients
[{:type :coarse-whole-wheat :amount 250}
 {:type :white-wheat :amount 250}
 {:type :flaked-oats :amount 100}
 {:type :milk :amount 200 :temperature 38}
 {:type :water :amount 100 :temperature 38}
 {:type :butter :amount 50}
 {:type :salt :amount 22}
 {:type :yeast :amount 3}]
:time 5
:body

Combined water, milk and sugar and proofed the yeast in the mixture for a few
minutes. Then combined everything, added it to the poolish and combined
everything using the [pincer
method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HoY7CPw0E1s). I then kept kneeding and
working the dough until it had some strength. I'm a little worried the fat in
the milk and butter will inhibit the dough too much, so I figured I might as
well give it a strong start.

Finished the dough at the target temperature of 28C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Bulk fermentation
:time 210
:body

Doughs fermented in a 24C kitchen for 3.5 hours, stretches every 15 or so
minutes the first hour.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Shaping
:time 80
:body

I formed loose rounds and let them rest for 20 minutes. I then shaped them into
batards and transferred them to a couple of bread pans for final proofing.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Baking
:time 40
:body

Baked in the pans at 245C for about 40 minutes.
