--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :meta
:title Hokkaido Milk Bread
:published #time/ldt "2019-10-11T12:00:00"
:image /images/bread/
:description

Another round of King Arthur's [Hokkaido milk bread
rolls](https://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/japanese-milk-bread-rolls-recipe),
scaled up and made into bun/loaf hybrids.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Tangzhong Roux
:ingredients
[{:type :white-wheat :amount 50}
 {:type :water :amount 125}
 {:type :milk :amount 125}]
:time 5
:body

I whisked the flour into the water and milk to form a loose roux, and then
heated it to 67C in the microwave.

I stopped at several intervals, and noticed that the roux thickens considerably
just from 60C to 67C, so don't give up too early, or you won't reap the full
benefits of the tangzhong.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Dough
:ingredients
[{:type :butter :amount 180}
 {:type :egg :amount 3}
 {:type :milk :amount 380}
 {:type :white-wheat :amount 950}
 {:type :sugar :amount 180}
 {:type :milk-powder :amount 35}
 {:type :salt :amount 20}
 {:type :yeast :amount 20}]
:time 20
:body

I melted the butter in the warm roux, added the eggs and the milk, then all the
dry ingredients. While I was able to work this dough by hand yesterday, it
really is some sticky stuff, with quite a bit of fat, so this time I opted for
machine processing. I kneaded it at slow speed for 3 minutes, then and medium
for a full 15 minutes. At this point the dough had let go of the bowl, and stuck
together as one elastic ball of dough.

The dough temperature at the end of kneading was just shy of 29C.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Bulk fermentation
:time 120
:body

Having scaled down the yeast amounts from yesterday's attempt, I gave this one
two hours to ferment, which is the regular schedule I use for same-day straight
breads with 2% yeast.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Shaping and proofing
:time 80
:body

I wanted to try the loaf style Hokkaido I've seen online - two large balls in a
pullman-style bread pan that grow into a camel-like lumpy loaf. I divded the
dough in three pieces. The first piece was made into 8 rolls in a cake pan like
yesterday. The remaining two pieces where split in two, shaped into two rolls,
then placed in bread pans. The pans proofed on the counter for 60 minutes. The
rolls went into the fridge, as I can't bake them all at the same time.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:type :section
:title Baking
:time 30
:body

I baked the pans for 25 minutes at 190C until they were puffy and golden. I then
pulled the rolls from the fridge and baked them covered for 10 minutes, then
uncovered for 15 minutes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
