:published 2019-05-10
:tags #{:beer :wit}
:type :beer
:og 1.050
:fg 1.008
:title Wit

:body

This is my second beer highly inspired by information gained at the Glazen Toren
brewery. This beer is based on the recipe for Jan de Lichte, but brewed to be a
little weaker in strength.

## Grist

- 3000g Pilsner malt
- 3000g Flaked wheat

## Water adjustments

Balanced profile Brewer's friend

- 1.5g CaSO4
- 1.5g CaCl2
- 2g CaCO3
- 1g NaHCO3

## Mash

- 18 liters of water, strike temperature: 71C
- 6.1ml 75% Phosphoric Acid
- Mash temperature: 65C

After 60 minutes:

- 17l. @65C 60min
- Ramp up, 74C after another 60min

## Sparge

18 liters of 80C water was added after the first runnings were pulled. The wort
was then brought to a boil, and then I killed the power and went to bed.

## Boil

The next day, I brought the wort back up and started the boil. 90 minutes, BG
1.045. 80% efficiency in the mash, which is pretty good for my setup.

- 1.5g CaSO4
- 1.5g CaCl2
- 50g Saaz @90 min
- 5g Supermoss @15min
- 1/4ts yeast nutrient @15min
- 20g Coriander seeds @5min
- 30g Bitter orange peel @2min
- 25g Cascade @Flameout
- **IBU**: ~15
- **OG**: 1.050

Pitched WB-06 by sprinkling onto wort at 20C. The house was very warm, and I did
this beer without temperature control - the wort was at 21.5C by the time I saw
signs of active fermentation, and it climbed to 22.5C the day after.

In the following days the temperature went a little bit too much up and down,
and I think the beer suffered for this - it has noticable fusel, which ruins the
beer for me.

- **FG**: 1.008
- **ABV**: 5.5%
