:published 2019-04-17
:tags #{:beer :saison}
:type :beer
:og 1.062
:fg 1.004
:title Saison d'Sofiemyr

:body

I brewed my first beer six years ago. Since then I've brewed over a hundred
beers. Some of them have been good, some awful. At some point I started turning
out more duds than successes, and I lost the interest. Then I got a dog, and
poof! A year went by without a single brew.

Fast forward to April 2019, and I visited the Glazen Toren brewery with two
friends. I love their beers, and the visit was so inspiring that I immediately
got about brewing when I got home. I used all the information I could gather at
the brewery to attempt a beer like their Saison d'Erpe-Mere: The Saison
d'Sofiemyr.

## Grist

- 6125g Pilsner malt
- 875g Wheat malt

## Water adjustments

- 4g CaCl
- 2g CaSO4
- 2g MgSO4
- 8g Lactic

## Mash

- 14 liters water at 55C for 20min
- Added 5 liters boiling water to hit 63C, kept for 90min
- Added 11 liters boiling water to hit 72C, kept for 30min

## Sparge

After running off the wort, I added 10 liters of 80C water, left for 10 minutes,
then ran off again.

## Boil

75 minute boil.

- 50g Fuggle 4.5% @75min
- 50g Fuggle @Flmeout
- Yeast nutrient and 5g supermoss @15min

## Pitch 

- OG 1.062
- Pitched at 21.5C

After 24 hours, the temperature dropped to 19.3C, and fermentation was active. I
ran this fermentation without temperature control in my new Brew Bucket (it's
too big for my current fermentation fridge).

April 26th: Fermentation still active, **SG 1.004**.

Eventually the beer stalled at **FG 1.004**. That's 7.6% ABV, about a full
percent higher than attempted.

## Bottling

I bottled this beer three ways:

1. With wort, dosing wort into individual bottles with a syringe
2. With sugar, dosing syrup into individual bottles with a syringe
3. With thin sugar water, to reach 6.5% ABV, as the original

Out of the three, I actually enjoyed the 6.5% version the most. Will definitely
brew again.
